
notanumber & Gosia may return NaN (not a number) or similar, depending on the operating system, in place of calculated yields, lifetimes, etc.  In Gosia, can happen for the following reasons: \n  (1) when some data, including spectroscopic data (lifetimes, branching ratios, measured matrix elements and signed mixing ratios) are passed to Gosia for a fit, AND the necessary matrix elements to reproduce these data are not included in the calculation. \n  (2) when attempting to make correction factors (OP,CORR) for gamma decays which are not defined by matrix elements.  \n  (3)  when calculating deorientation coefficients, since a fit to null data is used to force the G2, G4, G6 calculations\n  (4) when calculating correlated errors with dependent matrix elements coupled to masters.\nRachel prevents these errors in cases 1 and 2 by checking that the required matrix elements exist before passing data to Gosia.  In case 3, the NaN overflows do not affect the calculation, so they are ignored by the GUI.  In case 4, the accuracy of the correlated errors has been found to be reasonable even when these occurs.  (The overflow prevents Gosia from finding a better minimum, but the calculated uncertainties are reasonable.)

gnuplot & Gnuplot is used by Rachel to plot a number of quantities, after which, the user can enter any of the standard gnuplot commands to improve the plot appearance, plot to an eps file, etc.  A summary of some common gnuplot commands is given in the textview when gnuplot is called.  For convenience a summary is also given below:\n LOG/LINEAR: With the mouse over the gnuplot window,\n type "l" to toggle log or linear scale.\n SET THE PLOT RANGE: At the gnuplot prompt, type\n gnuplot>set xrange[xo:xf], e.g. set xrange[0:10]\n gnuplot>set xrange[:10]\n gnuplot>set yrange[0:]\n GENERATE POSTSCRIPT FILE: At the gnuplot prompt, type\n gnuplot> set terminal postscript eps enhanced color\n Terminal type set to 'postscript'\n Options are 'eps enhanced defaultplex \\n leveldefault color colortext \\n dashed dashlength 1.0 linewidth 1.0 butt \\n palfuncparam 2000,0.003 \\n "Helvetica" 14 '\n gnuplot> set output "test.eps"\n gnuplot> replot\n gnuplot> set term pop; set out;\n restored terminal is wxt 0\n TITLE:\n gnuplot> set title "Figure 1"

excitationamplitude & This feature is under construction! Calculation of the time-dependent excitation amplitudes requires a recent gosia version, such as the one distributed with Rachel.  The excitation amplitudes and probabilities for magnetic substates can be displayed in a plot as a function of time (parametrized as "omega" in the Gosia manual theory sections) once the nucleus, experiments and detectors are defined.  Click "Tools," and select option "at" to generate these amplitudes or plot them.  (If the matrix, level and experimental conditions have changed, then you should choose to "Re-integrate amplitude data.")  This function gives a microscopic view into the semiclassical treatment of the multistep excitation.  For instance, the plots of the excitation probability vs. time (w) can be compared for low-to-high-spin in a rotor to see the retardation of the higher-states' populations, compared to the ground and first states' populations.  This also allows the user to visualize the ranges of the various multipole fields, the effects of high values of adiabaticity, etc. 

collisionfunction & This feature is under construction! Calculation of the time-dependent excitation amplitudes requires a recent gosia version, such as the one distributed with Rachel.  The collision functions defined in the Gosia manual can be plotted for only those multipolarities for which matrix elements have been defined.  The magnitudes of the collision functions (without the complex phases) are plotted vs. time (parametrized as omega or "w").  This can be useful for understanding the range of the different multipole fields graphically.

redlevels & The red levels shown on the level scheme at the start of a session represent states that the GUI has not yet evaluated for coupling to the ground state, as well as those whose lifetimes have not yet been calculated (possible isomers).  During each session, when the Gosia calculations are begun, the GUI makes preliminary call to Gosia for a short calculation to establish which states are coupled by multi-step excitation to the ground state, and which have strong enough decays that they can be expected to decay quickly enough to compare their yields to data.  After this call, states remaining in red are either not accessible from the ground state by any path, are long-lived isomers, or both.

lifetimes & Level lifetimes and deorientation tensors can be calculated quickly from the current set of matrix elements.  This is done using a fast call to Gosia.  Select "Deorientation coeff." from the pull-down tab two spaces to the left of the "Go" button, select "Run Gosia input" in the pull-down tab to the left of the "Go" button and click "Go."

deorientation & Level lifetimes and deorientation ("vacuum depolarization") tensors can be calculated quickly from the current set of matrix elements.  This is done using a fast call to Gosia.  Select "Deorientation coeff." from the pull-down tab two spaces to the left of the "Go" button, select "Run Gosia input" in the pull-down tab to the left of the "Go" button and click "Go."

mixingratio & Mixing ratios are given to gosia if they are found in the file "rachel_nuclear_data.txt".  Note the phase convention that must be used in the Gosia manual section OP,YIEL and in the paper Krane and Steffen, Phys. Rev. C 2:724 (1970).


safeenergy & Cline et al. developed an estimate of the "safe" Coulex energy--really the safe energy for a pure Coulomb analysis.  See D. Cline et al., Nucl. Phys. A 133, pg. 445 (1969).  For beam energies below this estimated safe energy (described as a "crude estimate" by Cline, because it is based on the assumption of a well-defined nuclear surface), B(E2), B(E3), etc. and static moment or deformation measurements should be very accurate.  In brief, at the safe energy, the measured B(E2) values should be influenced by <= 0.1% by Coulomb-nuclear interference effects.\nIf only measurements of transition moments are desired, then it is possible to partition the data forward of the "safe angle", defined as the beam scattering angle for which the classical distance of closest approach corresponds to >5fm separation of the liquid-drop nuclear SURFACES.\nNOTE that for static moment measurements, the nuclear interference can have a much more significant effect, relative to the deorientation effect, on which deformation measurements are based.  Hence, if it is desired to measure the static moments accurately, the experiment should be designed so that the initial beam energy is at or below this definition of the safe energy, i.e. that the "safe angle" is 180 degrees (backward scattering).\nIt is common for experimenters to plan an experiment with a higher beam energy than is safe to gather more statistics, but, especially when static moments are the desired measurements, this often results in a wealth of data that CANNOT be analyzed accurately without the use of a Coulomb-nuclear code, and is therefore out of the designed regime of Gosia.\nThere are disagreements about the criteria for a safe energy for very light nuclei.

coulex & See "Coulomb excitation" instead of "coulex."

sommerfeld & The Sommerfeld parameter "eta" must be much larger than unity in order to use a semiclassical code such as Gosia to calculate accurate Coulomb excitation probabilities.  Refer to the Gosia manual and _Electromagnetic_Excitation_, Alder and Winther, North Holland (1975) pg. 3. for more information on the Sommerfeld parameter and the semiclassical approximation.


basicsetup & With the exception of deleting bands, the following steps must be performed in the following order, if you are just beginning to set up the GUI for calculations.\nStart by Loading a saved session or reading a level scheme into the GUI from a Radware AGS (ascii level scheme) file (help entry "agslevelscheme"), or from a properly formatted text file.  Refer to the help entry on "txtlevelscheme" for more information or the Rachel manual.\nOnce a level scheme is in memory, make sure that the band containing the ground state is band 1.  If it is not already band 1, enter 1 into the initial band field and the gsb band number into the final band field (both fields in the Main Control Panel), and click "Swap bands."\nTwo band signatures can be merged.  For example, if band 4 is the odd-spin signature of band 3, you can merge band 4 into band 3 by entering 4 into the initial band text-entry field in the control panel and 3 into the final band text-entry and click "Merge bands."  The GUI will remember one alias for the new band 3.  \nAdd matrix elements as desired (help entry "matrix").  (Matrix elements can be added at any time, but naturally, at least a partial matrix is required to perform calculations.\nDefine Gosia experiments using the button "Add/delete expt" (help entries "experiments" and "definitions") as desired.  When all experiments are defined, use the button "Define Ge det." to define the physical type of Ge detectors to be used.  \nAfter the physical detector type(s) are defined, Gosia must be informed of the physical types of detectors in use.  To do this, select "Make Ge det file" from the pull-down tab two spaces to the left of the "Go" button, select "Run Gosia input" in the pull-down tab to the left of the "Go" button and click "Go."  This will generate the gosia.gdt file for Gosia.\nOnce this step is complete, use the "Attach/delete detectors" button to link "logical detectors" (help topic "definitions") to the Gosia experiments in memory.\nOnce the desired Ge detectors are attached to the experiements, you are ready to begin Coulomb excitation calculations.  Refer to the help entries "calculatedyields" and "fitting".

experiments & A Gosia "logical experiment" (help entry "definitions") can be added once a level scheme and matrix elements are defined in the GUI.  Do this by clicking the button "Add/delete expt."  An interactive process will be initiated in the terminal window so that the GUI can obtain the necessary information to fully define the experimental parameters.

bands & Gosia does not understand bands; they are only used to help you visualize your level scheme.  The GUI will become confused, however, if you put two states of equal spin or of different parity in the same band.  

levelscheme & A level scheme may be read from a Radware .ags file (not .gls), or from a properly formatted text file.  Refer to the draft manual section on text-format level schemes.  Note that if you already have a level scheme in memory and you read in a second level scheme, you MUST delete one of any pair of bands that have the same name, or the GUI will become confused.  At present, the GUI does not force you to correct this condition of duplicate band names.  Also, refer to the help topic "bands."

txtlevelscheme & A level scheme may be defined in a text file according to the Rachel text file level scheme format and read into the GUI.  Refer to the Gosia manual section on Rachel.

exportmatrix & The matrix in memory, including the specified masters, limits and their dependent matrix elements may be saved to disk.  This is useful, if you want to rework the level scheme and then reload the previous matrix.  Click "Tools" and select "em", export matrix.

exportlevelscheme & The level scheme in the GUI's memory can be exported to a text file, which can be edited according the format in the GUI manual.  Click "Tools" and select "el", export level scheme.

importmatrix & A matrix that was previously exported (help entry "exportmatrix") or typed by hand in a text file according to the format in the GUI manual can be imported, even if some changes have been made to the level scheme.  Click "Tools", and select "im", import matrix.  This should only be necessary if a new GUI session is started, or if bands were replaced by reading a second level scheme into memory and deleting one or more of the original bands.

yielddata & Yield data for each detector in each experiment may be read from separate Radware .ags (not .gls) files, or from properly formatted text files.  Refer to the draft manual entry for text-format yield files in the latter case.  Alternatively, yield data for all experiments and detectors may be read from a previously generated gosia.yld file (button "Read Gosia yld file").  In this case, the experiment and detector setup and ordering must correspond exactly to the setup that was used to generate the gosia.yld file.

calculatedyields & Calculated (predicted) yields can be generated once you have defined a level scheme, a matrix and at least one experiment with at least one Ge detector attached.  Refer to the help entries "addmatrixelements," "importmatrix," "agslevelscheme," and "txtlevelscheme."  You must also have run the Gosia option "Make Ge det file".  To calculate the predicted yields, select "Integrated yields" in the pull-down tab two spaces left of the "Go" button, select "Run Gosia input" to the left of the "Go" button, and click "Go."  Once this process is complete, you will be able to plot your experimental yields against the predicted yields with the current set of matrix elements.

addmatrixelements & Always add matrix elements in the upward direction within a band, or for interband matrix elements from lower band number to higher band number, so that the phases will be consistent.\nAdding matrix elements to your level scheme can be done by several methods.  For the first two methods below, begin by selecting the initial and final band numbers for the matrix element(s) in the text-entry fields under "Bands I/F" in the control panel and selecting the multipolarity from the top pull-down tab in the right column of buttons.\nIf you want to add individual reduced matrix elements (typically for small level schemes), the button "Add <If||ML||Ii>" will allow you to do this, either by entering a number or a mathematical expression, possibly including a symbolic representation of a Clebsch-Gordan coefficient to be calculated.  You will be prompted in the terminal window for the initial and final spins and the expression for the reduced matrix element. \n If you want to add a number of matrix elements according to the rotor model, Alaga rule, etc., again, select the initial and final bands by entering their numbers in the "Bands I/F" entry fields.  If you are not adding in-band matrix elements (the initial and final band numbers are different), select the rule from the second pull-down tab in the right column of buttons, e.g. "Alaga."  Then click the button "Add/change m.e.", and respond to the prompts in the terminal window.  The GUI will refuse to allow you to add forbidden matrix elements, including K-selection forbidden matrix elements.  You can get around this by changing the K value of one or more bands, or by selecting the rule "kforbidden," which will follow Bohr and Mottelson's treatment of K-forbidden transitions.\nIf you have saved matrix elements (Tools, export matrix) that are relevant to the bands in memory, you can reload them using the "Tools" button and "im" for import matrix.  In this case, matrix elements that apply to levels or bands no longer in the level scheme will be ignored.  This function will replace duplicate matrix elements, but will not delete any matrix elements currently in memory, if they are not specified in the imported matrix file.  Note that the master matrix elements and their dependents will be remembered in the imported matrix file.

definitions &  "Logical experiments" as defined in Gosia correspond to partitions of the data from a particular particle detector and a set of at least one gamma ray detector for one laboratory experiment.  A logical experiment may correspond to the entire particle + gamma-ray yield data set from one laboratory experiment.  \nA "laboratory experiment" is defined as one accelerator experiment with a unique beam, target combination and detector arrangement.\n"Physical detectors" are defined as one type of Ge crystal at a fixed distance from the target.  If the detector array in use has Ge detectors (identical or not) at different distances from the target, then one physical detector must be defined for each identical detector at each distance from the target (button "Define Ge det.").  Detectors of identical type and distance from target, but at different polar and azimuthal detectors do not require different "physical detector" definitions.\nA "Logical detector" is defined in Gosia as a detector of one of the physical detector types at a unique polar and azimuthal position.

undo & There is a new "undo" button in version 1.2.8 and later.  The default maximum number of undo steps is set to 20, since the undo information is recorded on disk until the user quits the program.  The maximum file size for each undo step is ~200kB, so this should be considered if you want to increase the number of undo steps allowed.  This can be changed by adding a line to the .rachel_setup file \nMAXIMUMUNDOSTEPS = ###, where ### is the number of undo steps to be remembered during a session.\nUpon quitting Rachel, the undo steps are deleted to avoid confusing undo information from different sessions.  \nNote that undoing an operation does NOT revert the external files (gosia.inp, gosia.out, data and matrix files) to their previous states; it only reverts the contents of the GUI's memory (level and matrix data in memory, experimental parameters, Gosia control settings, etc.)  If you want to redo one or more steps that were undone, you can click "Redo" until all undo steps are redone.\nNote that after one or more undo steps, if you perform any operation that changes the GUI's memory contents, all redo information will be purged!

accuracy & The GUI automatically selects the most appropriate integration meshpoints for integrated yield calculations, but there are other factors that can affect the accuracy of your predictions and fits.  Refer to topics Integrationaccuracy, Fitoptions, Eccentricity and Adiabaticity. 

integrationaccuracy & The integration accuracy controls are most important for scattering angle ranges where the Rutherford cross section changes greatly.  The accuracy of the integration can be evaluated most easily by the following method. \nCalculate simulated yields with the maximum accuracy setting.  (Do not choose random scatter.)  The accuracy settings can be found under the button "Gosia controls," option "i."\nThe simulated yields will be automatically stored as the new data in the GUI memory, replacing any experimental data that were previously in memory!  \nReduce the accuracy settings for integration to the values you want to test.\nRun "Integrated yields."\nPlot the normalized yields (not absolute) with the "Plot yields" function, and check the chi-squared.\nIf the reduced chi-squared values on the plots are much less than 1, then the lower accuracy parameters should be sufficient.

simulateddata & You can generate simulated yield data with the GUI.  This is useful for testing the ability to fit matrix elements when planning an experiment and determining the detector setup that would give the best possible data for the fit.  Select "Make simulated yields" in the pull-down tab two spaces left of the "Go" button and "Run gosia input" in the pull-down tab to the left of the "Go" button.\nAfter the calculation, you will have the option to save the simulated data in the GUI and in Gosia's experimental yield file, and the option to also save the yields as predicted yields in the GUI memory.  You can then alter the matrix, set fit parameters and attempt to reproduce the "correct" matrix elements used to generate the simulated data by fitting these parameters to the simulated data.  See help topic "fitting."

fitoptions & There are a number of controls available to adjust the methods and convergence criteria for fits of matrix elements to the yield data.  These can be found under the button "Gosia controls", option "f."  The settings can be adjusted interactively after reading the brief description of each option.  The optimum settings for your fitting problem are case-dependent, and more information can be found in the Gosia manual section "OP,MINI."

fitting & The standard procedure for fitting matrix elements to your yield data is as follows.  (This assumes that you have defined all experiments, attached Ge detectors to them, loaded experimental yield data into each Ge detector and added all necessary matrix elements.) \nClick the button "Write gosia yld file" to send the relevant yield data to Gosia.  This will skip yields for states which would not be excited by your set of matrix elements (i.e. uncoupled bands).  Answer "y" to overwrite the yld file.\n In the pull-down tab two spaces to the left of the "Go" button, select "Make corrected yields", and in the button to the left of the "Go" button, select "Run gosia input."  This will calculate the corrected yields with appropriate correction factors to convert point-scattering yields to the yields of the full scattering range of each particle detector.  This point-correction is used in the fast fitting approximations for all Gosia fits.\n When this completes, Select "Estimate normalizations" in the pull-down tab two spaces left of the "Go" button.  This will tell Gosia how to normalize experiments that you have chosen to normalize to another experiment.  Click "Go" again.\n When this step prints the normalization output to the terminal window, select "Fit" in the left pull-down tab, and again click "Go."  It may be useful to monitor the progress by tailing the "gosia.out" file in a separate terminal window.  Gosia makes infrequent updates to the file, unless errors occur, in which case, you have the option to terminate the fit by activating the terminal window and pressing CTRL-C.\nAfter the fit is finished, which may take some time for a large number of fit parameters, the final reduced chi-squared value is reported in the terminal window.  You are then given the option to load the best fit matrix elements into the GUI memory.  This is generally the correct thing to do (answer "y"), so that you can recalculate the predicted yields with the best fit matrix, or iterate the fit again.\nWhen Gosia fits matrix elements to your yield data set, a reduced matrix element (as a separate parameter) or an intrinsic matrix element of a coupled set of matrix elements generally will not cross zero in the fit.  The physicist must decide if the opposite phase of a parameter should be tested.  In that case, the matrix element or set of matrix elements should be re-entered using the GUI (help topic "addmatrixelements"), and the desired couplings specified again (button "Fit parameters", since newly added matrix elements are always fixed (not fit parameters).  Then the procedure for fitting should be repeated ("Make corrected yields", "Fit", iterate until the fit no longer improves.\nIn order to graphically test the agreement between your data and the fitted matrix elements, you will need to recalculate the "Integrated yields" (pull-down selection two spaces left of the "Go" button).  Select this option, click "Go", and wait for Gosia to finish.  You can then plot the measured and calculated yields with your current best-fit matrix elements.

datanormalization & A data set (the yields for all Ge detectors or arrays) for each logical experiment (help topic "definitions") can be normalized independently (to itself), or to the data sets from another logical experiment.  If there is only one logical experiment defined, then it will automatically be self-normalized.  If two or more logical experiments are defined, then the user can either self-normalize them, or normalize one experiment to another.\nNote that it is not permitted to "chain" the normalizations, i.e. normalizing experiment 3 to experiment 2 and experiment 2 to experiment 1.  Instead, normalize both experiments 2 and 3 to experiment 1.\nSensible normalizations:  If two or more logical experiments correspond to different partitions of the particle scattering angle range in the same beam and target run, then normalizing the logical experiments for all but one scattering range to the first scattering range will generally improve the sensitivity in fitting matrix elements to the data.\nImproper normalizations: If two logical experiments correspond to different laboratory runs (different beam runs, beam/target combinations), then one should not be normalized to the other in general.  Doing so would result in a poor fit, since gosia interprets yield data on a relative scale, and generally accurate beam dose information for different laboratory experiments is not known.\nSee the important notes about fitting in help topic "targetdetection."

particledetectors & The present version of Rachel treats only particle detectors with azimuthal symmetry covering the full 2pi azimuthal angle range.  It is assumed that the particle detector is centered about the beam axis.  A future version will offer tools to define particle detectors of arbitrary shape and position using input shape and position parameters that are simpler to calculate than the input required in the standard gosia input file format. \n A particle detector defined in the GUI can also define a partial polar angle range covered by the true detector.  For example, if the data from a CD-type detector covering a laboratory polar angle range of 20 to 50 degrees is partitioned into 10 degree slices, then in the GUI, detectors can be defined in 10 degree slices to match the data partitioning: one detector from 20 to 30 degrees polar laboratory angle, one from 30 to 40 degrees, and one from 40 to 50 degrees.\n For information about analyzing experiments that don't use particle detectors, see help topic "nodetector".

phaseconvention & A consistent phase convention must be used for all matrix elements entered via the GUI.  This means that you should enter individual matrix elements (button "Add <If||ML||Ii>") always from a lower spin to a higher spin within a band, and from a lower-numbered band to a higher-numbered band.  This will pass consistent phases (excluding obviously mistakes by the user in calculating them) to Gosia.  The GUI will time-reverse phases appropriately, if you try to add matrix elements from a higher-numbered state to a lower-numbered state.  \nWhen entering in-band or inter-band matrix elements by the rotor, Alaga, or other rule, self-consistent phases are calculated automatically for the full set, but the physicist obviously has the choice of the phase of the intrinsic matrix element for each set.

nodetector & If your experiment does not use a particle detector, then you will have to integrate your yields over 4pi scattering to reproduce the experimental data.  Generally, this will be very accurate, but you may have to truncate your integration slightly backward of 0 degrees beam scattering angle.  However, if you are doing an inverse kinematics experiment, then it is recommended that you select target particle detection when defining the experiment (button "Add/delete expt").  You can check the accuracy of the full 4pi integration:  See help topic "coulexconvergence" to learn about this test.\nIf you were to select beam particle detection for an inverse-kinematics calculation, you would have to select one of the two kinematic solutions only, and your data would have to match this condition.  This integration may be expanded to include both solutions for beam detection in a future version of Rachel or Gosia.

inversekinematics & It is recommended that for extreme inverse kinematics experiments (A_beam >> A_target), the user selects target detection.  This has the advantage that there is far less sensitivity of the calculations to the user-defined recoil angle range than to the beam scattering range, where the maximum scattering angle is not well-defined for the true beam energy range in the target.  For A_beam >> A_target, the predicted yields may change rapidly as a function of the defined projectile scattering range and the assumed Q-value.  The most important drawback to specifying target detection is that target-detection experiments must be normalized independently with a loss of sensitivity if a particle detector was used to separate one laboratory experiment into several Gosia "logical" experiments.  For these extreme cases, this loss of sensitivity is preferable to an unknown inaccuracy due to the definition of the scattering range.

inelastickinematics & Gosia makes an approximate correction for inelastic scattering kinematics assuming by default that state number 2 of the level scheme is the final excited state.  In the semiclassical scattering calculations, the kinematics must be calculated approximately, unlike in a full quantal calculation.  Refer to the Gosia manual for more information on the accuracy of this assumption.  The final excited "kinematics state" can be changed in the GUI by clicking "Gosia controls" and selecting a new state.  By default, the second state counting first upward in band 1 and then left to right in band number is state number 2.  Examine the Gosia controls output from option k to see which state is used for the scattering kinematics.

targetdetection & There is an inaccuracy in fitting if the user specifies that the target is detected in one logical experiment AND normalizes this experiment to another logical experiment (or normalizes another experiment to the one with target detection).  This is true, even if the user specified target detection for both experiments.  You can avoid this by self-normalizing target-detection experiments (at the cost of some sensitivity in the fit of matrix elements), or by specifying beam detection with the equivalent scattering angle range.  \nIf you have only one experiment defined, such as a 4pi integration, then there is no concern with accuracy of the fit.

coulexconvergence & In older versions of Gosia, integrated yields for large scattering or recoil angle ranges did not converge, partly due to the use of Lagrange interpolation in the energy-theta mesh.  Rachel forces a more accurate spline interpolation and selects the optimum angular meshpoints for integration, so even integration over 4pi scattering (e.g. for experiments with no particle detector) should converge accurately.  Under the "Tools" button, option "ti" will test the convergence of an integration over a large scattering angle range, by comparing with a sum of yields for piecewise angular integrations covering the same range.  Typically, errors of 10^(-3)% can be expected when using Gosia via the GUI.

adiabaticity & The adiabaticity (defined in the Gosia manual) of an excitation increases with the one-step excitation energy.  To test the the accuracy for high adiabaticity, use option "tf" in the Tools menu.  Adiabaticity limits are generally only a problem for non-collective nuclei with high excitation energies and especially ones with important E1 excitations.\n  The "tf" test will allow you to plot point yields for any problem gamma-ray transitions and will flag the any problem transitions.   If the entire plot for a transition is not smooth (oscillatory for the entire scattering angle range), then this is a high adiabaticity inaccuracy (usually due to high one-step excitations).\n  See the Gosia manual, section 2.2 and especially equation 2.17b.\n  Any decay that depends on an inaccurate  high-adiabaticity excitation in populating the decay's initial state is prone to error and should be checked in the plots generated after these calculations.\n  Note that the "tf" test plots are "point" yields, not normal integrated yields and will not be on a scale directly comparable to experimental data.  (Refer to the Gosia manual entry on OP,POIN.)\n  If you find high-adiabaticity problems, then you will need to consider whether these high-adiabaticity states are populated weakly enough to be removed from your calculations.\nA future version of Gosia will treat both high-adiabaticity and high-eccentricity excitations accurately.

normalizationtransition & The normalization transition is required by Gosia, but the choice of transition does not affect the accuracy of calculations, as long as upper limits for unobserved transitions are normalized to this one.  (Upper limit data are not yet used by Rachel.)  The only requirements for the normalization transition are (1) that the matrix elements in the current calculation must be defined for this transition  (2) if fits to yield data are to be performed, this transition must be observed in all of the data sets, and (3) that it is not an isomer transition.  The default value is from the first excited state (left to right and bottom to top in the level scheme) to the ground state.  If these states are deleted, the GUI will prompt for a new choice.


topics & Main topics are  Credits  Basicsetup  Definitions  Accuracy 

